README.md, before:

# vscode-builtin-extensions

This extension contributes built-in VS Code extensions to Theia.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/theia-ide/vscode-builtin-extensions)

## Getting started (locally)

Install [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#install-script).

    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.5/install.sh | bash

Install npm and node.

    nvm install 10
    nvm use 10

Install yarn.

    npm install -g yarn

Install vscode.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    git submodule init
    git submodule update

Install vscode prerequisite dependencies.

    https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/wiki/How-to-Contribute#prerequisites

Pick a specific vscode version (optional)

    cd <repo root>/vscode
    git checkout 1.40.0

## Build

    yarn

## Running the browser example

    yarn start:browser

Open http://localhost:3000 in the browser.

## Running the Electron example

    yarn start:electron

## Developing with the browser example

Start watching of vscode-builtin-extensions.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    yarn watch

Start watching of the browser example.

    yarn rebuild:browser
    cd browser-app
    yarn watch

Launch `Start Browser Backend` configuration from VS code.

Open http://localhost:3000 in the browser.

## Developing with the Electron example

Start watching of vscode-builtin-extensions.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    yarn watch

Start watching of the electron example.

    yarn rebuild:electron
    cd electron-app
    yarn watch

Launch `Start Electron Backend` configuration from VS code.

## Publishing vscode-builtin-extensions to npm

If required, step the extension's version in `src/publish.js`

    // bump to publish
    let version = '0.2.1';

Create a npm user and login to the npm registry, [more on npm publishing](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/publishing-npm-packages).

    npm login

Publish packages with lerna to update versions properly across local packages, [more on publishing with lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna#publish).

    npx lerna publish

## Package built-ins as individual `.vsix`

If required, step the version to be used for the extensions in `src/package-vsix.js`

    // bump to publish
    let version = '0.2.1';

Generate .vsix extensions

    yarn package-vsix:latest

or

    yarn package-vsix:next

The `.vsix` extensions will be under folder `./dist`

Commit message:

[latest] publish built-ins to Open VSX registry
Added /src/publish-vsix.js to permit publishing to an Open VSX registry.
First run yarn to build the builtin extensions as .vsix in folder 'dist'
and remove any not wished published (e.g. not working well).

Then run:
   $> yarn publish:latest

To publish to a specific registry, use environment variable
OVSX_REGISTRY_URL to point to it. Defaults to open-vsx.org

Use environment variable OVSX_PAT to store your access token for the
registry.

Also improved the auto-generated README used in our .vsix, so it's clearer
that Microsoft is not involved in any way other than being the author of
these extensions we package and publish.

Added a copy of the VS Code license file for each builtin.

For vsix packaging, now use version number that reflects the VS Code
version as per its package.json.

Signed-off-by: Marc Dumais <marc.dumais@ericsson.com>

README.md, after:

# vscode-builtin-extensions

This extension contributes built-in VS Code extensions to Theia.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/theia-ide/vscode-builtin-extensions)

## Getting started (locally)

Install [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#install-script).

    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.5/install.sh | bash

Install npm and node.

    nvm install 10
    nvm use 10

Install yarn.

    npm install -g yarn

Install vscode.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    git submodule init
    git submodule update

Install vscode prerequisite dependencies.

    https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/wiki/How-to-Contribute#prerequisites

Pick a specific vscode version (optional)

    cd <repo root>/vscode
    git checkout 1.40.0

## Build

    yarn

## Running the browser example

    yarn start:browser

Open http://localhost:3000 in the browser.

## Running the Electron example

    yarn start:electron

## Developing with the browser example

Start watching of vscode-builtin-extensions.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    yarn watch

Start watching of the browser example.

    yarn rebuild:browser
    cd browser-app
    yarn watch

Launch `Start Browser Backend` configuration from VS code.

Open http://localhost:3000 in the browser.

## Developing with the Electron example

Start watching of vscode-builtin-extensions.

    cd vscode-builtin-extensions
    yarn watch

Start watching of the electron example.

    yarn rebuild:electron
    cd electron-app
    yarn watch

Launch `Start Electron Backend` configuration from VS code.

## Publishing vscode-builtin-extensions to npm

If required, step the extension's version in `src/publish.js`

    // bump to publish
    let version = '0.2.1';

Create a npm user and login to the npm registry, [more on npm publishing](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/publishing-npm-packages).

    npm login

Publish packages with lerna to update versions properly across local packages, [more on publishing with lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna#publish).

    npx lerna publish

## Package built-ins as individual `.vsix`

The version of the packaged built-ins is automatically taken from the VS Code's `package.json` and will also include the SHA of the HEAD VS Code commit if packaging a "next" version.

To package, use one of the following:

Latest / solid revision:

    yarn package-vsix:latest

Next / interim revision:

    yarn package-vsix:next

The generated `.vsix` will be under folder `./dist`

## Publishing VS Code "Builtins" to open-vsx

After generating the `.vsix` (see above), you may examine/test the extensions under folder `dist`. Remove any that you do not wish to be published (e.g. those not working well). When ready proceed with publishing:

    yarn publish:latest
